
The Package ca-certificates
---------------------------

This package includes PEM files of CA certificates to allow SSL-based
applications to check for the authenticity of SSL connections.

The CA certificates contained in this package are installed into
/usr/share/ca-certificates/.

The configuration file /etc/ca-certificates.conf is seeded with
trust information.

'update-ca-certificates' will then update /etc/ssl/certs/ which may be
used by various software. It will also generate the hash symlinks and
generate a single-file version in /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt.
Some web browsers, email clients, and other software that use SSL
maintain their own CA trust database and may not use the trusted CA
certificates in this package.  Those packages that *do* use
ca-certificates should depend on this package.

How to install local CA certificates
------------------------------------

If you want to install local certificate authorities to be implicitly
trusted, please put the certificate files as single files ending with
".crt" into /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/ and re-run
'update-ca-certificates'.  If you remove local certificates from
/usr/local/share/ca-certificates/, you can remove symlinks by running
'update-ca-certificates --fresh'.  If you want to prepare a local
package of your certificates, you should depend on ca-certificates,
install the PEM files into /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/ as above
and call 'update-ca-certificates' in the package's postinst, and should
call 'update-ca-certificates --fresh' in the package's postrm.
